In this section, we'll be looking at all the components that we'll
put together to deploy our first Lambda function.
These should primarily be runtime agnostic, but keep in mind that there
will be some minor differences between deploying Python, JavaScript, or
Java code to Lambda, the same thing with any of the other runtimes. To
keep this course more succinct, we're looking exclusively at the Python
deployment process for right now.
So in this module, we're building our Lambda canary for Globomantics Pet Care.
As we mentioned before, this function has three main parts.
First, it's set to run on an interval,
triggering the function every few minutes. After the function is triggered,
it makes a request to a website and then reviews the status of that website.
Our function then logs the status of that website for future review.
Now let's take a look at how we'll be preparing this function.
The first step to deploying your function is to gather up the dependent parts
that you'll need the function to have. When I say dependent parts or
dependencies, I sometimes mean a few different things.
First, you'll need the external libraries that your function will be using.
For Python,
this means that everything not installed by default
in Python standard libraries.
When you deploy a Lambda function,
any additional dependencies will need to be bundled up with your code.
We'll take a look at how to do this in just a moment.
Additionally,
you'll want to include any other files that your function relies on,
such as HTML email templates or configuration files that you might be
loading information from. Next, you'll need to audit the AWS services
your function will be interacting with.
Does it send off queries to DynamoDB? Does it require integration with the
API Gateway? Each service Lambda interacts with is another service that it
needs explicit IAM permissions from to access them.
You'll need to make sure it has these permissions
within the role that you assign it.
Lastly,
you'll need to make sure that your function has all the API
keys and configuration information it needs.
Fortunately,
Lambda functions are given some AWS configuration
information based on the role you provide them.
However,
if you need to have your function interact with an external
API or a database, it's likely going to need some sort of
credential information to do so.
We'll talk about some best practices for this occasion
more in depth in a later module, but it's still good to keep this in mind now.
So how do we go about writing our function code?
When you're writing the content of your Lambda function,
you essentially have a few options.
You can write the code locally in your preferred IDE and bundle it all
together for deployment, or you can write the function code directly into the
Lambda editor in the AWS console. Fortunately for us,
with smaller function packages,
AWS will give us a bit of the best of both worlds.
When you upload a function package to AWS, you can actually edit
your function file in the Lambda code editor to make fixes or
changes to portions of the function.
You can also find plenty of ways to automate your function
deployment with the AWS command line or by using the AWS
SDKs to work with an interface.
There also frameworks for this purpose that we'll cover
in the last module of this course.
So what do you do when you've prepped all of your function code,
dependencies, and configuration information?
Well, you'll need to zip all of that up into a function package.
The function package is essentially just a zip archive of all
your function information that you can upload directly to the AWS
console or by using the AWS CLI. Now, once you've uploaded a function package,
you'll need to make sure it runs properly.
AWS allows you to test your functions with sample events
to make sure they run correctly before you activate the
triggers that make them run.
The more complicated your functions become,
the more I encourage you to take some steps to keep
track of what might cause them to fail.
Here are a few things to keep in mind when debugging your functions.
First, be sure to use logging.
It's important to know which portions of your function are running
properly and where the hiccups or failures occur in them.
Log key portions of your functions and the results that they generate.
These logs will be stored by default in AWS CloudWatch,
a separate AWS service that keeps track of your
logs for many other services too.
Also,
be aware of the differences between your environment, where
you test your functions on your local machine, and the
environment that you run it on.
If you're testing your function code locally on OS X or Windows,
you'll need to remember that the function will actually be executing
on an Amazon Linux machine inside of a container.
This is especially relevant if you have libraries that are
compiled to the machine that you're working on.
An easy way to avoid that particular problem is to create a function
package in an Amazon Linux EC2 instance where you have the exact
same environment or by using frameworks that help ensure that you're
doing this process correctly.
Lastly,
if you started working more with Lambda, you're almost guaranteed to run
into a few issues that don't have obvious solutions.
However,
there is a growing community of people using Lambda who are
likely to have encountered the same issue before,
so don't hesitate to search for solutions that they've created or
reach out directly to folks in the community.
And as your use cases get more advanced, be sure to
take a look at third‑party tooling,
which has come a long way since the early days of AWS Lambda.
All right, so that's all the context we need. Let's jump into how we'll be deploying our first function.